---
layout: post
title: Signing the Anti-Meta Fedi Pact
date: 2023-06-22
---

Recently, the [Anti-Meta Fedi Pact](https://fedipact.online/) written by [Vanta Black](https://beach.city/@vantablack) has
gotten pushback from [Hacker
News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36384207), [John
Gruber](https://daringfireball.net/linked/2023/06/19/not-that-kind-of-open),
and others, decrying the fediverse as too insular and doomed and
unlikely to be competitive.

From my perspective, this is absurd. But it speaks to a larger problem
in that even relatively technical audiences just see Mastodon as a
Musk-free Twitter clone. I am not sure how to bridge that gap to
non-programmers. Maybe [Ian Betteridge's explanation
here](https://ianbetteridge.com/2023/06/21/meta-and-mastodon-whats-really-on-peoples-minds/)
is helpful.

There are lots of reasons not to federate with Meta/Facebook. The
signers of #FediPact disproportionately have "lgbt" or "queer" names
and themes in their instances, which imply that protecting the online
safety of their communities comes before "reach".

I agree with not wanting to trust or federate with Facebook/Meta on
principle, but don't want to elaborate on why right now. The main
reason I'll never federate with them is simple-- I wouldn't be able to
keep my instance online if I did. Not without more resources and more
money.

I'm the admin of a [single-user
instance](http://social.city-of-glass.net) for [myself
alone](http://social.city-of-glass.net/@cidney). So I don't have to
worry about exposing my users to harm, or denying them reach. My only
user is myself, so if I do something that hurts my users, I'll
instantly be able to recognize and grow from it. I'm specifically
doing this as a way to experiment with whether I might ever want to
host a larger community, possibly via
[Hometown](https://github.com/hometown-fork/hometown), but at the
moment I don't have the time or energy.

I've already experienced downtime due to increased traffic and new
user signups on the flagship instance when Elon Musk bought
Twitter. Since I'd installed Mastodon on a VPS that also ran my file
hosting server, git forge, and various other tools, and didn't have
the time to seriously debug the issue, I deleted Mastodon to preserve
storage and bandwidth. Since being a Mastodon admin is a hobby, not a
day job, and because I don't have users I'm accountable for, it took
months for me to restart. By then I'd lost all of my followers, and
had to start from scratch. Since it was just me, I don't depend on
social media for my livelihood, this was perfectly fine. With even one
user, just deleting their account for a few months while sorting out
the mess would not be an option.

It certainly gave me perspective on what it'll be like to have yet
another major increase in traffic. I'm now running Mastodon on a
dedicated VPS, but it's a fairly small one. I'm not eager to pay for
more storage and bandwidth. 

