--- 
layout: post
title: Summer Adventure Game Club Highlights
date: 2023-10-17
tags: creativity
---

Lately I'm trying to make more time to *play* adventure games. I've
joined a [public adventure game club on
Discord](https://discord.gg/auMAktw3u7) that focus on a game of the
month. Here are some new ones I've played:

- Roadwarden
- The Excavation of Hob's Barrow
- The Lost Files of Sherlock Holmes (The Case of the Serrated Scalpel)

------------------------

[Roadwarden](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roadwarden) by Moral Anxiety Studio

This game is a visual novel with RPG elements in which you play the
titular Roadwarden, an adventurer patrolling a remote part of a
medieval Empire. You and your trusty steed ride circuit through a
haunted peninsula, keep the peace in the villages, and try to
negotiate trade agreements with the Empire.

It's a structure with a lot of gameplay and storytelling
potential. There's a time limit of 40 days and all in-game actions
take time. It's quite possible to complete the game and report back at
the end of your mission without figuring out what's going on with the
villages.

Combined with a fair amount of character customization (you pick
between a fighter, a mage, and a "scholar", and then can choose a
church religion, paganism, or no religion at all), this allows for a
plenty of replayability. I enjoyed playing the game more than once,
roleplaying different wardens (a naive cleric, a benevolent ranger), and
solving the overall time-management puzzle. On the second playthrough
I had a good eight days towards the end with nothing to do, but it's
easy to go back and completethe mission early, so there were no
issues with pacing.

The game was made in Ren'Py, but didn't feel like a visual novel.
There were plenty of options to use a parser to guess an NPC's name or
ask about free-form topics. This felt more intellectually engaging
than a typical dialogue tree and allowed for a sense of mystery and
exploration as you figure out which topics are worthwhile to ask
about.

The only downside was that the walls of text DID get repetitive. I'd
often mistakenly click through important narrative sections. The game
helpfully saves a transcript, but there's so much text that this
didn't feel all that useful. None of the characters (and there are a
lot of them) had illustrations; just the towns and environments. I
don't know if adding voice acting or character art would have improved
the game.

Overall-- the writing is great, the design is great, and the pixel art
environments are well-done and create a great deal of
atmosphere. Highly recommended.


---------------

[The Excavation of Hob's Barrow](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Excavation_of_Hob%27s_Barrow) by Cloak and Dagger Games

This game is a more traditional point and click adventure game than
the other too. You play as Thomasina Bateman, a Victorian antiquarian,
who travels to a remote village in the moors of England to try to
obtain permission to excavate an ancient burial mound. She'll soon
discover that the inhabitants are not what they seem to be; she's
warned repeatedly about how dangerous her expedition is and how the
barrow is best left undisturbed. Over time there'll be flashbacks to
Thomasina's history, her comatose father, and her personal connection
to the archaeological site.

It's a folk horror game, mostly taking place in a small village, all
rendered in gorgeous pixel art. The art, writing, and voice acting are
the real highlights of the game. The village feels seamlessly
realistic; the NPCs are distinctive and well-exeuted; and getting to
know the location and uncover the plot was enjoyable. In the early
part of the game, the puzzles are seamless; later on, once you're
actually inside the barrow, they delve a bit into Indian Jones-style
challenges that feel more suitable to an escape room than the mood of
the game. A few people commented in the chat that some of the puzzles
seemed like obligatory adventure game fare and didn't connect well
with the story. However, none of them bog down the narrative, and by
that point it's easy to get to the ending, which is suitably
disturbing.

All of the art and animation is done in pixel style, with evocative
animated closeups. You'll deal with nightmarish goblins, menacing
cats, creepy villagers, and Thomasina's own eyes widening as she has
flashbacks. The interface is simple and intuitive; right click to
examine, left click to interact, inventory objects selectable from a
menu at the top of the screen. The voice direction and acting is
incredibl. (Thomasina's voice actor went on to play Karlach in
Baldur's Gate 3). The inventory-object puzzles are fair and do a good
job of not being trivially easy or frustrating enough to break
immersion. And the game does a good job of using art, animation, and
sound to convey a sense of dread and mistrust. The end of the game has
some logic puzzles that feel a bit escape-roomish and incongruous with
setting, but nothing that had a real negative impact on my experience
as a player.

---------

[The Lost Files of Sherlock Holmes 1: The Case of the Serrated
Scalpel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Lost_Files_of_Sherlock_Holmes)
by Mythos Software

This one was interesting. It's an older game (1992) from a short-lived
developer with a LucasArts style interface. You play as Sherlock
Holmes, who is engaged by Inspector Lestrade to investigate the murder
of an actress. Lestrade thinks that she's another victim of Jack the
Ripper; Holmes points out early on that the knife marks are from a
*serrated* scalpel, not something a medical man would use. The rest of
the game consists of investigating leads and discovering an
increasingly wider array of locations to visit and revisit for clues.

The game's premise is intriguing, and I enjoyed the beginning, but it
definitely had cumbersome parts. Dr. Watson follows Holmes around to
every location, makes obvious commentary on the plot when asked, but
is rarely helpful. Every scene transition involves waiting for Watson
to walk to the edge of the map and follow you out. This gets annoying
quickly. Especially towards the end of the game, when you unlock
dozens of locations and have to backtrack between them for clues.

Often progressing the game felt arbitrary. There are dialogue options
that open up after what seem like arbitrary triggers-- examining
something in the room, for instance. In one place you need to pick up
an object to break into a room, and it's fairly obvious that you'll
need to do this from the minute you enter the room, but until a
certain variable gets set, attempting to pick up the object does
nothing.

All of the dialogue is menu-driven. I was often in the situation where
I knew what to do next, but couldn't figure out how to unlock the lead
I needed. Inventory objects stay around forever and clutter up the
interface. By the end of the game there are dozens of places to
visit. There are a LOT of NPCs, but the game treats them more like
sources of information rather than suspects or real people. In
particular you can visit Inspector Lestrade in his office at any
point, but except for a specific puzzle, you have nothing to say to
him, even after additional murders related to the case you're
investigating take place. this led to a world that felt big, but
shallow. You can explore more of London in this game than you can of
New Orleans in Gabriel Knight, but the one-dimensional nature of most
of the NPCs gives it much less atmosphere.

At no point in the game did I feel like I was performing super-sleuth
level deductions. Towards the end it felt like discovering and working
through a tedious to-do list; I admit to consulting a walkthrough
because I didn't want to waste time backtracking to locations in
search of new clues.

This review sounds negative, but... this was 1992, it was made by a
small studio, and it's been fun to discover older adventure games that
aren't Sierra or LucasArts. The genre has evolved and players expect
more when it comes to quality-of-life improvements. And that's a good
thing.

