---
layout: post
title: 'Microblogging vs. blogging feeds'
date: '2024-11-25-11:02:08 -0500'
category: webdev
---

I recently asked my [fediverse mutuals](http://social.city-of-glass.net/@cidney) if any of them have blogs with RSS feeds to subscribe to. I am hoping something pans out soon.

I've been AFK for the last few weeks dealing with a housing
emergency-- there was a gas leak in my apartment complex, and my
roommate/landlord and I had to evacuate. The building is family-owned,
and my roommate is taking over responsibility for the building, but
his parents are in Israel and have been the ones maintaining it for
some time. This puts me in a precarious situation.

I'm living in eastern Queens for $750/month, which is extremely good
in terms of rent. I've been spending more time at NYU's Game Center
and connecting with people there, but the reality is that New York
City is too expensive for even successful independent game developers
to live in permanently. I moved here from Florida because, well,
Florida had become completely unlivable unless you're one of Ron
DeSantis's cronies for some time. As a queer people, a sexual assault
survivor, and a cis woman with irregular periods, living in a state
with a 6-week abortion ban isn't a viable option. It's fairly normal
for me to not have more than three or four periods in one year, and
even completely abstaining from sex isn't enough to protect me from
unplanned pregnancy. I've never needed an abortion or been pregnant,
and I don't expect this to change, but the current political climate
makes my life feel incredibly precarious.

As a result, I've been scrambling to find a safe place to live and
work, and have not been able to charge my electronics reliably. This
means that I haven't been able to keep in touch with friends and
family; many of whom have been quite worried about me.

I am safe now, and beginning to catch up on social media.

Some people I follow and like on the Fediverse have long form blogs,
others only microblog. Some people who do both will consolidate ideas
they talk about in microblog posts into long from blog posts. [Alex
Schroeder](https://alexschroeder.ch/view/index) and [Michael
Klamerus](https://virtualmoose.org/) are good examples of this. This
means I don't have FOMO if I can't read people's blog posts. There are
also people who primarily use their blog (self-hosted, Patreon, etc)
for ideas and updates, and only microblog to signal boost-- these are
folks I can unfollow freely and just keep track of via RSS without
guilt.

But most people, including me, don't have the spoons to have a clean
separation and a clear purpose for their blog(s) and their
microblog(s). So I'll check my feed and read things that seem
interesting, actionable, and urgent-- people I like and admire who are
workshopping ideas, crowdfunding their novels-- where it's
overwhelming.

I have limited resources, both time and money. I donate to nonprofits
and mutual aid when I can. The world feels like it's overwhelmingly on
fire these days, and the only things that help are meaningful human
connection, but I'm stretched too thin to help even my loved ones when
they need it. It's going to be a struggle to survive the next four
years, but what are we here for except each other?

So if you are reading this-- please respond with links to RSS feeds I
should follow to best stay in touch with you. It may already be in my
feed reader, or not. But I'm using RSS as my primary tool for staying
connected with the world, and only checking social media when I truly
have time.
