---
layout: post
title: 'November 2024 Review'
date: '2024-12-01-11:20:35 -0500'
category: personal
---

This has been quite a month. I haven't gotten much done. I've gone through a lot.

In the US, Donald Trump became the first Republican to win the popular
vote fairly in a long time. After the election, it felt like everyone
was losing their minds. Drivers were more aggressive. I was getting
sexually harassed by strangers on the street. There was more violence
in the city. I've been harassed by former friends and family
members. Tensions are high. Like previous Democratic administrations,
the Biden administration did nothing to reverse surveillance
technology, and now we have yet to see how much of Project 2025 will
be made manifest. I've deleted my remaining corporate social media
accounts (Facebook and Discord). My web server is hosted in the United
States at the moment, but this may change.

This blog, and my microblog on the fediverse, are the main way to
reach me. Even the latter might not be true forever. Can't I just host
my own microblog and syndicate/interact with ActivityPub? I've been
looking into switching from Mastodon to GoToSocial but may just run my
own thing anyways for the sake of simplicity and ease-of-CLI-use.

On a personal and professional level, things have been rough. I'm busy
with contract work and my own work, but many people I know, people
older and more experienced than me who are incredibly accomplished and
talented, have been out of work for months. I am friends with
programmers and artists who are moving to retail jobs (where at least
your employer doesn't own your IP). Everyone's hurting and struggling
to make ends meet financially. There are more adventure games coming
out this year than anyone can keep track of, let alone play. Yet the
drive to create and make art remains.

NaNoWriMo was this year, and I set out to write a novella,
_Sorceress_, rather directly a feminist version of the "boy genius
magician's apprentice" trope in epic fantasy, as written by Ray Feist
and even Ursula K. LeGuin. I ended up getting halfway through it, and
need to find time to finish and get back to a daily writing habit. The
main characters are a twelve-year-old girl and a forty-year-old woman,
a master and her apprentice, and I'm dealing with a lot of my own
issues on the expectation that all women want to be mothers, adoptive
or otherwise. But I need time to finish it. Time is hard to come by.
