---
layout: post
title: 'GodotCon 2024'
date: '2024-10-22-12:11:20 -0400'
category: gamedev
---

I was in Berlin earlier this month for [GodotCon](https://conference.godotengine.org/2024/). I've been to in-person meetups, but never something so big! It was at Silent Green, the same venue as Amaze.

The talks were very good. This was a much bigger event than last year's, and the hosts seemed rather overwhelmed. Tickets sold out within 30 minutes (though I got mine from the waitlist). Most of the gaming conferences I've been to are very writer-oriented, and it was nice to be around other game programmers and FOSS enthusiasts.

I'm still using Unity for consulting work, but am much more productive in Godot. No wasted time compiling shaders! No .NET dependencies! It's great for indie dev. The main bottleneck for everyone now seems to be console support for commercial games, which doesn't make publishers happy. This is what [W4 games](https://www.w4games.com/) is working on.

One thing I was surprised by was Juan Linietsky's keynote saying that the majority of Godot users are content creators, not programmers. This is true when people are forced to use a tool they don't like for a job, but I don't think this is necessarily true or should be for Godot. I'm a fan of each program doing one thing well. Godot makes a great level editor and engine, but I'd rather artists work with Krita, etc.

There's a whole community I'm not terribly involved in. (Out of 500 people, virtually everyone was white and male, but this is skewed towards people who travel to conferences.)

I'm very ready to be done with Unity, but it looks like it'll be another year or so until there's a solid pipeline for releasing on consoles.

More next year, perhaps?
