---
layout: post
title: 'City of Glass Devlog #005'
permalink: '2025/05/30/city-of-glass-devlog-005.html'
date: '2025-05-30'
categories: 
- gamedev
- city-of-glass
---

It's almost summer. I'm back in Berlin, and things are progressing
rapidly with City of Glass.

The early game is now complete, up to Sarah entering the city and
joining the Resistance. I'm taking my puzzle dependency charts and
notes for the later part of the game and grayboxing Acts 2 and 3,
using scratch graphics and placeholder dialogue. The middle game is
the least linear and gives me the most room to add and subtract
quests, puzzles, and content-- but the finale needs to be as tight as
possible, and I don't want to fall into the trap of having a strong
beginning and a weak ending. 

Many games I've worked on have focused on building a vertical slice
first-- a polished build of one section of the game, usually the
beginning, to show to potential investors, via Kickstarter or
otherwise. This often plays very differently than the whole game,
though, usually with more linearity, and doesn't communicate
expectations up front. The beginning of City of Glass is set in
Sarah's home village-- which is much more confined than the city
itself. In order to get a sense of the game, I need to showcase both.

At the beginning of the month I was focusing on the dialogue
interface-- settling on talker portraits over the background
environment. I'm still using [Ink](https://github.com/inkle/ink) for
the actual writing and
[Popochiu](https://github.com/carenalgas/popochiu) for the adventure
game environments, adding to the bridge I built
[here](https://github.com/cidneyhamilton/ink_popochiu).

A lot of what's left with the game is just
*writing*. I've been very focused on art and systems and not so much
on the narrative or design. The final confrontation with the villain,
and the puzzles leading up to it, need to tie the whole thing
together-- and I've never done a project this lengthy on my own.

Comparing this month's build to last month's build, a lot has
happened, but because I'm in development nearly every day, it's hard
to see the progress. There are people who are able to write
enthusiastic devlogs on a regular basis-- but I understand now how
much emotional labor goes into them.

In the meantime, quite a lot of new games in the adventure and RPG
genres have come out this spring. [Rosewater](https://www.grundislav.games/Rosewater.html), [Old Skies](https://oldskiesgame.com/), [Near Mage](https://www.near-mage.com/), and [Kathy Rain 2](https://www.gog.com/en/game/kathy_rain_2_soothsayer) among others. Some of these I've playtested; all of them I can recommend.


