---
layout: post
title: Roberta Vaughan
date: '2025-09-11'
permalink: '2025/09/11/roberta-vaughan.html'
categories:
- personal
- gamedev
---

Roberta Vaughan met me in 2018, when I was working as a contract
programmer for Corey and Lori Cole. We'd just shipped Hero-U and were
working on a new visual novel series. We were a team of
high-maintenance creatives-- Sierra alums, artists, and programmers--
and badly needed someone who could help connect us to the adventure
game community and get the word out about the game.

From the beginning, Roberta was effervescent, positive, communicative,
and professional. She was the founder and administrator of the Classic
Gamers Guild on Facebook; had many contacts in the games press and
event world; and had the power to both deeply admire the designers who
were our bosses as creatives, and care about them as people. We bonded
immediately over both being hyper-competent Millennial women, often
dismissed intellectually on account of being young, feminine, and
pretty.

Roberta encouraged the Coles to do a booth at PAX West to demo our new
game. When she found out I wasn't planning on attending, she paid for
my plane ticket herself and took care of all my transportation
history. I warned her that I'd need more accommodations than might be
expected-- I'd been in a catastrophic car accident that shattered my
spine a few years ago, I'd just finished my third round of spine
surgery and was finally able to function without significant pain, but
had no idea if I'd be able to fly without injuring myself. She was
understanding and accommodating-- she had chronic illnesses herself,
she had been in a car accident herself.

True to her word, Roberta met me at the airport, in full [Katrina](https://www.rockpapershotgun.com/gaming-made-me-quest-for-glory-iv)
cosplay. We recognized each other immediately, hugged, and she went
from being a work colleague to a close friend.

Roberta wasn't just taking care of the Transolar booth; she was
coordinating two AirBNBs worth of volunteers, facilitating a Sierra
reunion, and a panel for Sunday night. The panel-- Adventure Games
Then And Now, moderated by the Space Quest Historian-- was Roberta's
baby, and brought together Sierra alumni and veteran game designers
(the Coles, Al Lowe) with modern adventure game developers (Francisco
Gonzalez, Julia Minamata, Dave Gilbert). It was remarkable
achievement.

Roberta would go on to connect me with the Williamses when they began
working on Colossal Cave Adventure during lockdown and needed a
programmer; to Dave Gilbert when I first moved to New York City; and
to many more people within her network. I'm a typical shy and socially
awkward computer geek who is much happier writing code than talking to
humans. People who do what Roberta does-- community management-- are rare,
talented, and often underappreciated. It's their job to be the bridge
between the development team and the fandom, which can often mean
being on the receiving end of negativity and abuse from both sides,
and having to put a positive face on everything. 

In particular, Roberta and I were both working with Sierra and
LucasFilm alums, often under non-disclosure agreements, and end up
privy to behind-the-scenes drama that is difficult to explain to
anyone outside the field. She became a close confidante; the person I
could talk to about work who would *get it*, understand the people and
circumstances involved. We'd have phone calls that would last until
4AM where we'd both reaffirm how special our connection really was. It
was around that time that she decided we were spiritual sisters; she
was open about how much she loved me and believed in me and would
support the hell out of any solo work I did as a designer. It wasn't
until she was in the hospital and I was meeting her parents for the
first time that I realized how serious she was about that, how open
she was to her family about how important I was to her.

When I last saw her at AdventureX, in 2023, she'd gone from
representing a handful of Sierra alumni to taking on more modern
independent developers as clients than I can possibly list or
enumerate. I met half a dozen of them there in London, and these were
just the people in Europe. She talked about her previous work in film,
and the Renaissance the adventure game world was going through, and
how much talent and diversity of expression there was. We had so much
to look forward to.

Carrying on without her-- making the games Roberta would want me to
make, forging and strengthening the connections she'd been making for
me with her community, knowing how much her service took out of
her... has been impossibly hard. For the last few years I knew how
much strain she was under, and how determined she was to push herself
past that to support the people and projects she loved. Her death was
sudden, shocking, and traumatic. She was way too young.

I love and miss you so much, Roberta. I'll try to honor everything
you've done for me, everything you've asked, and live the way you
would want me to.
